---
title: Study of Reform Proposals for Chicago City Council
date: 2019-04-15 00:00:00 Z
categories:
  - news
category_nav: reports
authors: MGGG
featured: true
pdf: "/Chicago.pdf"
image: "/uploads/chicago-maps.png"
image_caption: Two districting plans for Chicago
permalink: /chicago
---

Many observers agree that the Chicago City Council ward system suffers from
problems of gerrymandering, intense segregation, vestiges of machine politics,
and inefficiency. In our latest report, we apply mathematical models to analyze
Chicago's current ward plan and compare several reform proposals to address its
problems. Our findings strongly support a transition to multimember wards with
ranked choice voting to secure and sustain fair representation.

[Download the report here.]({{page.pdf}})

## Draw your own districts

To accompany this report, we have added Chicago to
[Districtr](https://districtr.org), our open-source web app for redistricting so
that anyone can try their hand at drawing a districting plan and to explore the
interplay between the structure of a districting system and the demographics of
individual wards.
[Get started drawing districts here](https://districtr.org/chicago).

## See the data and code

We have made all of the code and data used for this report available in a
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/mggg/chicago). This includes:

- Cleaned ranked-choice voting data from Minneapolis, Cambridge, and Oakland
- Shapefiles of Chicago's precincts, wards, and community areas, joined with
  demographic and socioeconomic census data.
- Our full ensembles of districting plans for Chicago, in a Districtr-readable
  format
- A new Python package [`rcv`](https://github.com/mggg/rcv) for tabulating
  ranked-choice ballots.
- Jupyter notebooks we used to generate ensembles, analyze and visualize data,
  and run the stochastic election model used in the report.
