---
title: New job opportunities at MGGG
date: 2019-04-24
authors: MGGG
categories:
 - news
layout: post
permalink: /jobs
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
featured: true
description: "We will soon begin hiring for several positions (**Geographer**, **Software
Developer**, and **Data Scientist**) through the Tisch College of Civic Life at
Tufts University. Letters of interest are being accepted from April 24 to May
15, by email to [jobs@mggg.org](mailto:jobs@mggg.org).


[Read more about the positions here.](/jobs)"
---

The Metric Geometry and Gerrymandering Group (MGGG) is a research organization
based at Tufts and MIT studying applications of geometry and computing to U.S.
redistricting. Our mission is both technical and civic, and we aim to drive
cutting-edge research, amplify the voices of the public and the civil rights
community, and improve accountability in the redistricting process.

We will soon begin hiring for several positions (**Geographer**, **Software
Developer**, and **Data Scientist**) through the Tisch College of Civic Life at
Tufts University. Letters of interest are being accepted from April 24 to May
15, by email to [jobs@mggg.org](mailto:jobs@mggg.org). Please include a CV with
links to relevant projects, with your GitHub username if applicable. If you see
yourself as falling in between these job titles, tell us so. We will use the
letters of interest to craft the official job postings. We hope for start dates
in Summer 2019, with opportunities for engagement with the
[Voting Rights Data Institute](http://gerrydata.org).

## Geographer

MGGG seeks a full-time **Geographer** to join a multi-disciplinary team studying
political geography, voting rights, and redistricting.

### Main duties will include:

- Data analysis of elections and districting plans ;
- Collecting and managing electoral data, shapefiles, and other spatial data
  products (such as [mggg-states](https://github.com/mggg-states) and
  [maup](https://github.com/mggg/maup)) ;
- Communicating with election officials to obtain and validate data ;
- Designing tools and visualizations ;
- Writing and editing public-facing materials (such as white papers) ;
- Supervising teams of research assistants.

### Required Qualifications

- Experience using ArcGIS, QGIS, and/or other desktop GIS for spatial data
  creation, query, visualization, and analysis ;
- Experience with spatial data wrangling, including format conversion, attribute
  and spatial join, and coordinate system transformation ;
- Experience with cartographic design ;
- Experience with demography, population studies, and/or political science.

### Desired Qualifications - a non-exhaustive list of possible assets for the position

- Graduate degree or GIS certificate preferred ;
- Familiarity with Census data products and precinct-level election data
  specifically ;
- Experience working with community groups and civil rights organizations ;
- Facility with Python and familiarity with geospatial programming in Python (or
  another high-level programming language like R or JavaScript) ;
- Experience with spatial databases (preferably using PostGIS/PostgreSQL) ;
- Knowledge of critical geography literature ;
- Experience as a mentor, teacher, or supervisor ;
- Writing and editing skills, including reports, articles, and/or user manuals.

## Software Developer

MGGG seeks a full-time **Software Developer** to help us build the software and
the technical infrastructure needed to produce research and support reform
efforts in voting rights and redistricting. Willingness to learn new skills
across problem domains is a must.

### Main duties will include:

- Building and maintaining open-source tools for redistricting research (such as
  [GerryChain](https://github.com/mggg/GerryChain)), including geospatial data
  processing and auditing packages (such as
  [maup](https://github.com/mggg/maup)) ;
- Contributing to the development of [Districtr](https://districtr.org), our
  open-source web app for drawing districts and identifying communities ;
- Solving data science problems that come up in our consulting and research
  projects, with a focus on creating dependable, systematic approaches that can
  be reused in the future.

### Required Qualifications

- Fluency with Python ;
- Web development, including modern front-end HTML/CSS/JavaScript development ;
- Experience delivering tested, high-quality code ;
- Experience with GitHub (or equivalent) and continuous integration practices.

### Desired Qualifications - a non-exhaustive list of possible assets for the position

- Demonstrated interest in social and racial justice ;
- Experience writing unit tests with pytest ;
- Experience handling geospatial data using geopandas/shapely and pandas ;
- Back-end development in Flask or another Python framework ;
- Database experience ;
- UI/UX background.

## Data Scientist

MGGG seeks a **Data Scientist** who can expand our reach in research at the
interface of mathematics, computing, political science, and law. Examples of our
recent data-driven projects include:

- [Study of the Chicago City Council election structure](http://mggg.org/chicago)
  (white paper and districting module)
- [Study of racial gerrymandering in the Virginia House of Delegates](http://mggg.org/VA-report.pdf)
- [Article comparing effects ofredistricting criteria in Virginia](http://mggg.org/VA-criteria.pdf)
- [Amicus brief for SCOTUS partisan gerrymandering cases](http://mggg.org/amicus/)
- [Article demonstrating "fencing out" of Republicans in Massachusetts](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.09051.pdf)

### Required Qualifications

- Demonstrated track record of creative problem solving with real data ;
- Network science concepts, including graph theory and clustering techniques ;
- Comfort with mathematical data science (such as convex geometry, spectral
  theory, or probability and statistics at the graduate level) ;
- Experience with technical, popular, and scholarly writing ;
- Demonstrated interest in social and racial justice.

### Desired Qualifications - a non-exhaustive list of possible assets for the position

- Background in Markov chains and MCMC ;
- Experience with spatial data ;
- Background in theoretical computer science, especially algorithm analysis ;
- Experience with machine learning ;
- Background in law, especially constitutional law or election law ;
- Knowledge of political science literature;
- Experience working across disciplines and on tight deadlines ;
- Fluency with Python.
