---
title: Jobs at MGGG
date: 2022-06-28
authors: MGGG
categories:
    - news
layout: post
permalink: /jobs
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
featured: true
description: "Come join our team! We’re hiring a **Senior Web Developer** to rewrite our Districtr web app. Letters of interest are being accepted by email to [jobs@mggg.org](mailto:jobs@mggg.org).


[Read more about the position here.](/jobs)"
---

The MGGG Redistricting Lab is a non-profit research organization based at Tufts University studying
applications of geometry and computing to U.S. redistricting. Our mission is both technical
and civic, and we aim to drive cutting-edge research, amplify the voices of the public and the civil
rights community, and improve accountability in the redistricting process.

As of June 2022, we are currently looking for a **[Senior Web Developer](#web-developer)**
for a medium-term (3-4 months) full-time position. This is a very high-impact position that involves redesigning and reimagining one of the most popular tools in the nation promoting citizen involvement in the redistricting process.  Districtr was used by over 130 localities to collect public input for redistricting in the last year, including the Michigan Independent Citizens Redistricting Commission, cities from Minneapolis to Los Angeles to Dallas, and districts for everything from community colleges to libraries to public high schools.    

The Lab is based on the Tufts campus in
Medford/Somerville, MA, but fully remote work is a possibility.
Letters of interest are being accepted
by email to [jobs@mggg.org](mailto:jobs@mggg.org). Please include a CV/resume with
links to relevant projects, with your GitHub username if applicable. 

Access to voting rights for communities of color and other marginalized groups
is central to our mission, and we strive to build a team that is diverse in as
many ways as possible.

<!-- We are not currently hiring.  Please check this page in the future for any updates to our openings. -->




<ul class="card-list">
{% assign jobs = site.jobs | sort: "position" %}
{% for job in jobs %}
    {% include job.html job=job %}
{% endfor %}
</ul>
