---
title: Covid Research
date: 2020-07-06 00:00:00 Z
categories:
authors: MGGG
featured: false
permalink: /covid
---

At the MGGG Redistricting Lab, our team includes expertise in math modeling, geospatial data, and app development.
We have a RAPID grant from the National Science Foundation to support planning related to Campus Coronavirus Response and have launched several component projects.

### Spatial Match
* There are numerous applications for making a travel-minimizing spatial match from hospitals and labs to college campuses. In March, we built 
a [spatial match tool](https://mggg.org/covid-flows/) that connects hospitals to nearby college campuses. At the time, the intended use case was to relieve the bed strain on hospitals. As we plan for Fall, the same model can be used to match campuses to nearby CLIA-certified labs to do their COVID testing.

### Testing Frequency Calculator
* We mocked up a University Testing Calculator, a scenario-building tool to help university leadership arrive at plans for COVID testing cohorts and frequency for the Fall 2020 semester. You can access the calculator [here](https://mggg.github.io/uni-calculator/).

### Testing App for Fall 2020
* Working with the Broad Institute, Tufts IT, and a design firm called Atomic Object, we're coordinating the development of a mobile app called CampusKey.
This app will serve as a hub for users to interface with the testing regime on campus by organizing user availability information, interfacing with our mathematical model assigning load-balanced scheduling, providing user access to test results, and displaying a badge indicating that the user is in compliance with their assigned testing schedule. You can read an information sheet [here](todo_link_info_sheet_when_it's_ready).

To discuss any of these projects, please reach out at [contact@mggg.org](mailto:contact@mggg.org) or to PI Moon Duchin directly at [Moon.Duchin@tufts.edu](mailto:Moon.Duchin@tufts.edu).