---
title: "Jobs"
date: 2025-11-01 00:00:00 Z
categories:
    - news
authors: MGGG
featured: true
permalink: /jobs
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"

---

In 2025-26, we are hiring for 6.5 positions.  Here are our open job opportunities as of January 7, 2026.
<!--more-->

The Data and Democracy Lab (née MGGG Redistricting Lab) is a research group led by PI Moon Duchin in the Data Science Institute at the University of Chicago. 
Members of the lab engage in interdisciplinary research, drawing on approaches from geometry, topology, graphs and networks, probability/statistics, and algorithm design, 
in conversation with geography, political science, policy, and law.  The lab is deeply engaged with civil rights and good-government work in representative democracy.

Major activities of the lab include:
- researching voting systems, redistricting, and other topics at the intersection of mathematics and democracy; 
- software development of our open-source packages in Python and various other languages; and
- collaborating with community partners and civil rights organizations.


## Software Developers

We hope to hire 1-2 full-time software developers into the Data Science Institute at UChicago.  You can apply [here](https://uchicago.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/External/job/Chicago-IL/Research-Software-Engineer_JR32051-1?q=dsi).

## Hybrid Postdoctoral Positions

This is a new kind of position for a recent PhD -- you will come to UChicago for an in-person year of training and research, then conduct a residency in a research director-type role at a nonprofit or other NGO engaged in democracy work.  (The official job listing calls this "field work" for HR purposes.)  We have multiple excellent partner organizations lined up as hosts.  After that extended visit, you return to Chicago to finish the three-year postdoc.  These positions should prepare applicants for academic or non-academic career paths, equally. You can apply [here](https://uchicago.infoready4.com/#freeformCompetitionDetail/2000551).

## Lab Manager / Program Director

The Data and Democracy Lab sits inside the broader DDRI (Data and Democracy Research Initiative).  We seek to have a pair of leaders heading these ambitious and wide-ranging programs, and we are currently searching for one of the two roles.  PhD or JD is preferred, though experience running a complex organization can be an alternative qualification.  
You can apply [here](https://uchicago.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/External/job/Illinois-Chicago/Lab-Manager--Data---Democracy-Research-Initiative_JR32182).


## Pre-Doctoral Positions

These are staff positions for recent college graduates who want more hands-on research experience before applying to PhD programs.  Though more common in economics, they make a great deal of practical sense in other technical fields.  The pay range is similar to doctoral stipends, and the 1-2 year timespan allows you to be a principal contributor on software projects and a co-author on research papers.  You can apply [here](https://uchicago.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/External/details/Predoctoral-Scholar_JR32397?q=predoc).

## Summer Internship 2026

Due to our recent move to the University of Chicago, we will not be running an internship program this coming summer. UChicago students interested in summer research opportunities should contact the Lab directly. We hope to restart our intern program in summer 2027.


<!-- We are not currently hiring.  Please check this page in the future for any updates to our openings. -->


<!-- <ul class="card-list">
{% assign jobs = site.jobs | sort: "position" %}
{% for job in jobs %}
    {% if job.hidden == false %}
        {% include job.html job=job %}
    {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul> -->
